README.md, before:

Sampler / Player
================

This directory contains the first working version of the sampler and
player Qsys modules, as well as some examples. This README is a short
bit of documentation.

The *Sampler* reads data on its inputs into a memory chip, one after
another. This memory can be read by a Nios II processor.

The *Player* writes data from memory into its outputs, one after
another. This memory can be written to by a Nios II processor.

Using These Modules
-------------------

To use these modules, copy the `ip/` directory into your project root.

Connecting Modules in Qsys
--------------------------

Once you have copied over the `ip/` directory, these modules should
appear in your Qsys module list.

Each module has parameters you can set for data width (`width`) and how
long to record (`timeBits`).

As an example, setting `timeBits` to 10 will record 2^10 (1024)
samples.

Each module has some connections you need to make:
    
* `buffer_clk`: (input) same as Nios II's clock
* `buffer_reset`: (input) same as Nios II's reset
* `csr`: (memory) used to trigger the Sampler or Player to start
* `buffer`: (memory) stores data
* `done`: (output) triggered when the Sampler or Player finishes
* for Samplers:
    * `sample_clk`: (input) determines how often to sample data
    * `sample_reset`: (output) driven low when the Sampler is reset
    * `sample`: (input) the data to input
* for Players:
    * `play_clk`: (input) determines how often to output data
    * `play_reset`: (output) driven low when the Player is reset
    * `play`: (output) the output data

Usually, you'll want to connect the top 5 on each module, and export the
bottom 3 so you can connect them in verilog.

Talking to These Modules in C
-----------------------------

These modules include a tiny driver you can use with the HAL BSP. It
should be automatically added to your code when you use these modules.

To use these modules, include the header files:

```c
#include "sampler.h"
#include "player.h"
```

To access them, you must open them:

```c
sampler_state* samp = sampler_open("/dev/sampler_name_in_qsys");
player_state* play = player_open("/dev/player_name_in_qsys");
```

After initializing in this way, `samp->buffer` will be an array where
sampled data is stored (as 32-bit unsigned integers), and
`samp->buffer_size` will contain the size of that array.

Similarly, `play->buffer` will store playback data (as 32-bit unsigned
integers) and `play->buffer_size` will contain the size of that array.

Both modules start out disabled. Neither module will do anything unless
told to do so:

*   `player_set_enabled(play, 0 or 1)` will disable or enable playback.
*   Once enabled, use `player_wait_done(play)` to wait
    until completion.

You can use `sampler_set_enabled(...)` and `sampler_wait_done(...)` to
do the same for Samplers.

The usual process is something like:

*   Fill up `play->buffer` with reservoir input.
*   Call `sampler_set_enabled(samp, 1)` to start recording.
*   Call `player_set_enabled(play, 1)` to start playback.
*   Call `player_wait_done(play)` and `sampler_wait_done(samp)` to
    wait until both finish.
*   Call `sampler_set_enabled(samp, 0)` to disable sampler.
*   Call `player_set_enabled(play, 0)` to disable player.
*   Use recorded data written do `samp->buffer`.

There are a few other functions you can call to interact with the
Sampler / Player modules, check out their header files for more.

Commit message:

added helper functions to get address of a specific time

README.md, after:

Sampler / Player
================

This directory contains the first working version of the sampler and
player Qsys modules, as well as some examples. This README is a short
bit of documentation.

The *Sampler* reads data on its inputs into a memory chip, one after
another. This memory can be read by a Nios II processor.

The *Player* writes data from memory into its outputs, one after
another. This memory can be written to by a Nios II processor.

Using These Modules
-------------------

To use these modules, copy the `ip/` directory into your project root.

Connecting Modules in Qsys
--------------------------

Once you have copied over the `ip/` directory, these modules should
appear in your Qsys module list.

Each module has parameters you can set for data width (`width`) and how
long to record (`timeBits`).

As an example, setting `timeBits` to 10 will record 2^10 (1024)
samples.

Each module has some connections you need to make:
    
* `buffer_clk`: (input) same as Nios II's clock
* `buffer_reset`: (input) same as Nios II's reset
* `csr`: (memory) used to trigger the Sampler or Player to start
* `buffer`: (memory) stores data
* `done`: (output) triggered when the Sampler or Player finishes
* for Samplers:
    * `sample_clk`: (input) determines how often to sample data
    * `sample_reset`: (output) driven low when the Sampler is reset
    * `sample`: (input) the data to input
* for Players:
    * `play_clk`: (input) determines how often to output data
    * `play_reset`: (output) driven low when the Player is reset
    * `play`: (output) the output data

Usually, you'll want to connect the top 5 on each module, and export the
bottom 3 so you can connect them in verilog.

Talking to These Modules in C
-----------------------------

These modules include a tiny driver you can use with the HAL BSP. It
should be automatically added to your code when you use these modules.

To use these modules, include the header files:

```c
#include "sampler.h"
#include "player.h"
```

To access them, you must open them:

```c
sampler_state* samp = sampler_open("/dev/sampler_name_in_qsys");
player_state* play = player_open("/dev/player_name_in_qsys");
```

After initializing in this way, `samp->buffer` will be an array where
sampled data is stored (as 32-bit unsigned integers), and
`samp->buffer_size` will contain the size of that array.

Similarly, `play->buffer` will store playback data (as 32-bit unsigned
integers) and `play->buffer_size` will contain the size of that array.

Alternately, you can ask for a pointer to the data at a specific time
by using `sampler_get_time(samp, time)`. This is a volatile pointer to
an array of 32-bit unsigned integers, with length
`samp->width_words`. `time` must be less than
`samp->time_length`. Similar functions exist for Players.

Both modules start out disabled. Neither module will do anything unless
told to do so:

*   `player_set_enabled(play, 0 or 1)` will disable or enable playback.
*   Once enabled, use `player_wait_done(play)` to wait
    until completion.

You can use `sampler_set_enabled(...)` and `sampler_wait_done(...)` to
do the same for Samplers.

The usual process is something like:

*   Fill up `play->buffer` with reservoir input.
*   Call `sampler_set_enabled(samp, 1)` to start recording.
*   Call `player_set_enabled(play, 1)` to start playback.
*   Call `player_wait_done(play)` and `sampler_wait_done(samp)` to
    wait until both finish.
*   Call `sampler_set_enabled(samp, 0)` to disable sampler.
*   Call `player_set_enabled(play, 0)` to disable player.
*   Use recorded data written do `samp->buffer`.

There are a few other functions you can call to interact with the
Sampler / Player modules, check out their header files for more.
